One way to research and learn more about
vulnerabilities is through MITRE's CVE framework.
We're going to do a quick introduction to this and tie everything we've learned together.
Now, if you wanted to do a search within this framework,
you can either search by keyword,
or you can search by the specific CVE if that is known.
Let's say we're looking for vulnerabilities associated with brute-force attacks.
If we type in bruteforce and hit "Enter",
you get a list of different brute-force related vulnerabilities and descriptions.
Now you can click into each one to learn more, of course.
Let's say we wanted to click on the most recent one because as you can see,
they're labeled by year.
If we click into this one,
I know there's a lot of information here,
but we can zone in on the things that matter the most.
You have the CVE-ID,
which is the common identifier across all platforms.
You have a description here.
In this case, this ID looks like it's associated with an API
that doesn't implement measures that prevent account lockout.
Basically, an attacker can try
different passwords in unlimited amount of time with no consequences.
That's the issue here.
You can check the references section to see more links
and more information that can help you research this,
and you can see that it was created on this date in February of 2020,
and so you know when it came out.
But one of the most important elements of tying the CVE back to
what you've learned so far is linking over to the National Vulnerability Database.
If you click this link,
it takes you over to the National Vulnerability Database.
What you can find in here is
a lot more information related to the calculator that you learned about.
You have the CVE number here,
which again is important,
you have the description,
but here it ties in that severity rating.
Here you can see the base score we talked about is a 7.5, so it's high.
If you click on this,
you get taken back to the calculator.
You can look into some of the details there,
and you can begin to, again,
if you wanted to add some context relevant to your company,
you can begin to add some of that in to see
a more accurate score for what you're dealing with.
Then another thing if we go back to the main page we were just on,
is you'll recognize this vector string that we talked about as well.
You can start to see what different requirements and elements are included in the score.
Again, if you hover over,
you can also begin to see some of those details.
Again, tying it all together and researching vulnerabilities in
the CVE MITRE framework to bringing it and
tying it into the CVSS score is really important.
We'll go back to our Nessus scan results and tie this all together.
Back on this page,
you remember the list of vulnerabilities that we discovered.
If we look into the results we reviewed before,
we can click into that and get more information.
Let's say we wanted to tie this back together to this medium finding here.
If you click on that, you'll remember,
you can see the title,
you can see the severity,
the description, and so on.
But if you scroll over here all the way to the right,
you can tie this information back to what we just learned.
Here you can automatically see what the CVSS scores are.
You can see that vector string straight from your results,
and you can even go down and see the CVE-ID associated with this finding in Nessus.
This is an example of how you can tie
the research tools that are out there from MITRE and from
other sources back to scan results in
the actual scanner that you are using to make this a lot easier.
That's how you can conduct research on vulnerabilities
using the MITRE CVE framework and tie it back to your scan results.